Now let's learn about a really cool and really powerful privacy technique
called zero-knowledge proofs.
A proof is just like it sounds,
but of course in cryptography,
we think of proof in terms of incontrovertible proof.
Kind of like how in the video on hashing,
we wanted incontrovertible proof that the pre-image matched,
or in the video on message signing,
we wanted incontrovertible proof that
a message was signed by the holder of a private key,
that same standard applies here.
The zero knowledge part means that the person you're proving
to doesn't learn anything more than the bare fact that you're proving.
For example, say I want to prove to you
that I know the secret about how to play baseball,
and this secret lets me hit a home run every single time I go to bat.
Since that's not something most people can do,
if we could demonstrate that somehow,
then you'd probably be pretty sure that I do know a secret.
But, how would we prove something like that?
Well, I could invite you to a baseball field with me,
and you could throw mission pitches,
and I could go knock them all at the park.
After doing this enough times,
you'd be pretty convinced that I really do know the secret that I claim.
But, I didn't have to share with you that exact secret in order to prove that I had it.
That's a zero-knowledge proof.
Now, a couple things to note about that.
The first is, I could've been lucky,
maybe I don't really have a secret,
and you threw me a ball,
and just by luck,
I hit a home run.
You don't really have any real way of knowing the difference except by throwing me
enough pitches until you satisfy yourself that it's not just luck.
This is what's called an interactive proof.
Now, if we're doing this in data,
we may have to pass some values back and forth several times until you're satisfied
that it's the secret that's giving me the right answers, and not just luck.
The second thing to note about interactive proofs is,
this proof is really only convincing to you.
Anybody who was watching us can't really be sure that we're doing
a real proof or maybe we've conspired to have some kind of rehearsed performance.
Because they're not part of the interaction,
there's no way to convince them that there's not some,
say trick when you pitched me the ball.
The opposite of an interactive proof is a non-interactive proof.
Non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs are proofs where
the secret holder can create a proof without relying on anyone else.
For an example of this,
let's say I have standard Fitch to card poker deck.
I can show everyone that deck,
and prove that it has 26 Red cards and 26 black cards,
then I shuffle a deck,
and I remove one card from the deck.
Now, I see that it's a red card,
and I want to prove to you that I'm holding a red card,
but I don't want to reveal exactly which card it is.
Well, in this case, there's a trick.
I can go through the remainder of the card deck,
and turnover every single black card on the deck.
Once I revealed all 26 black cards,
but none of the red cards,
anyone who sees my proof knows for sure I'm holding a red card.
No interaction required.
So, what do zero-knowledge proofs with data look like?
Well, you've already seen some.
For example, rings signatures we learned about earlier in the last video,
are zero-knowledge proofs of set membership.
So, if I show you a ring signature,
it's a non-interactive zero-knowledge proof that I
have one of the private keys that belongs to the public key set,
but you have no proof about which one,
that information stays protected.
There are lots of other zero-knowledge proving techniques.
In the next concept, we'll discuss one of the more interesting ones called ZK snarks.